TOM: I am here with Robert Llewellyn, Scrapheap Challenge and Red Dwarf and many other things.
but more importantly: an electronic car fan. What are we in?
ROBERT: We are in a Tesla Model S.
TOM: I can not handle fast acceleration.
A fuel-driven car, becomes lighter when you burn fuel.
Race cars have to keep an eye on that. Too much fuel and they are too heavy
and they slow down. Too little fuel and they will be without fuel on the racetrack. But I recently had the thought:
Does that also apply to electric cars? Because energy = mass, according to
the laws of nature that I have learned.
ROBERT: Yes.
TOM: So while you lose energy, Or it converts to movement .. loss
you then mass, do you become lighter?
I thought I could easily look it up, but that was not the case. The internet has
a lot of contradictory opinions from amateur physicists. So I asked professional physicists.
I asked a handful of physicists, including Professor
Philip Moriarty, of Sixty Symbols. And the majority agrees that when
the battery is full, she is the heaviest.
Godv ----- [Ahh]
Wow this is fast! we drive tach - we are already driving 96! 112! 128!
Ok, electrons are not being removed from the battery at this time. It is slightly more nuanced than that.
In ways that I do not understand and that I spend hours or even
some years of physics lessons would need to understand it. 192! But we can do exactly
calculate the maximum difference with the help of the best-known formula in the world.
Energy - 216! Energy is equal to mass times the speed of light squared. The battery
in this car contains about 85 kilowatt hours, which is about 306 million joules.
Divide this by the square of the speed of light, and the result is about 3.4 micrograms
or about - wow strong deceleration wow! - or about the weight ...
Wow my voice was above during braking, I was flattened.
Or about the weight of a small grain of sand. It is impossible to measure, we lost more mass
of the tires during braking.
ROBERT: [LAUGHING]
TOM: And if I spit out of the window we would lose a hundred thousand times more weight.
Literally, I've calculated it.
What it comes down to: That acceleration, that use of the battery means that we
lighter so when we accelerate again ...
... we go a little bit faster.
Robert Llewellyn's new book "News from the Clouds" is now on sale. Robert,
Thank you so much for being a good test pilot.
Translated by Erik Willems Spelling corrected by Gideon